let's get into it just let me get my
slides up I think they're all good I
think they're all good let me just
that's working cool I think that's
working hello everybody thank you very
much for coming along my name is Jay I
am one of the expert IELTS teachers here
at e2 language if you need help with
your IELTS test and check out the
website sign up for free lots of
practice material but today what we're
going to do is we're going to look at
the question type that makes every
student's heart flutter that is true or
false not given this is a confusing one
and it's really the difference between
false and not given that gets everybody
confused so if you're doing the IELTS
you should know that there are 11
different task types
this one is task type 2 true false not
given we've looked at the other ones
there on YouTube or there on the website
with practice material let me explain
this task to you in detail ok so what's
going to happen is this first of all
you're going to have an instruction it's
always the same instruction questions 1
2 8 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 do the data true if
the statement agrees with the
information false if the statement
contradicts the information not given if
there's no information so what you do is
this you go to number 1 and you ask
yourself does this statement say the
same thing as the text let's say for
example it comes from here so do these
two say the same thing if yes they say
the same thing
you're right true same thing here or
does this statement contradict the text
say something different then it will be
false or the one that gets everybody is
this statement not actually mentioned in
the text in which case will be not given
let me explain this in more detail
because I think the problem lies with
the difference between false and not
given ok what's this little
demonstration carefully because it will
explain what this task is testing you on
and if I give you a real-life
naari oh you go ah I see what it's all
about is the method so here we have a
happy couple right these guys are in
love they're gonna get married and
they're gonna buy a house and so they've
come to talk to the real estate agent
here here's the real estate agent this
woman here now the agent is talking
about the house and she's saying the
house has two bedrooms sorry the house
has two large bedrooms and an indoor
swimming pool okay let's read that again
to make sure we've got it the house has
two large bedrooms and an indoor
swimming pool okay cool
later on that day the happy couple are
at home and the guy who's a bit of a
says I like that the house has two
big bedrooms and outdoor swimming pool
and a games room so what is true what is
false and what is not given here okay
so she says true it has two big bedrooms
well done darling that's a good thing
you said false it has an indoor swimming
pool he said outdoor swimming pool false
it has an indoor swimming pool and not
given she didn't mention the real estate
agent didn't mention anything about a
games room and then he says I only got
one out of three she says darling you're
a 5.5 and he says I better sign up to
eat you language she says that's a good
idea okay I know that was funny but so
this is what you're going to write on
your answer sheet
true false not given true false not
given something like this I hope you're
ready to do this I'm going to time you
put you under test conditions please try
your hardest we'll go through the
answers one by one at the end and I will
explain why they are the way they are
here we go you have two minutes to
answer
I think the first three questions
you
okay I just I'm glad you guys enjoyed my
little cartoon before okay that's two
minutes don't worry if you haven't
finished because we'll go through it at
the end
let's do questions I believe well I'm
just going to leave it up to you you've
got two minutes
you
okay this may be going a little bit fast
but again we're going to go through it
slowly in a minute when I show you the
answers let's do the final questions
here
you
all right again I pushed you for speed
then a couple of things have popped up
which I want to answer right now
the first one is can I write EF or ng
well read the instructions always read
the instructions it says here right true
false or not given so can you write tf4
ng no you must write true false not
given the second thing that has come up
is J you're not giving us enough time we
don't know if it's not given or not
because we don't know which paragraph
it's in that's one of the problems about
not given is you may be tempted to write
not given because you just can't find it
remember it's going to follow a
sequential path so question 1 will come
at the top in the pre in one of the
first paragraphs and then it will
followed the same order as the questions
the paragraphs and the questions follow
the same order ok so there's that what
else is going on ok the big thing in
with this one is keywords ok anyway
let's go through the answers I'm gonna
show you why the answers are the way
they are here we go so first of all you
needed to find a keyword here to start
off because if you're reading up yeah
there's nothing here there's nothing
here we have half an hour and here we
have 30 minutes so we've found our
corresponding synonym so we know where
to read now we need to confirm or didn't
or say not say true false or not given
for these two so number one you should
not arrive more than half an hour before
you're allocated starting time in other
words don't arrive more than 30 minutes
before you start here it says please
arrive no earlier than 30 minutes before
that time true false or not given in
other words do these say the same thing
in which will be true do these to
contradict each other in which case it
will be false or is there no information
well there's certainly information so it
must be
true or false the answer is for this one
true in other words these two things say
the same thing it's kind of tricky
because there's a negative in there
there's a not there's an earlier then
there's a later it's it's tricky stuff
but that one is true the morn is true if
you got true well done that was a hard
one let's do number two your writer
identity card will be sent to you before
the event now the key word that you
would search for would be writer
identity card
there's nothing mentioned about a writer
identity card in these two paragraphs
and even in the next paragraph there's
nothing mentioned about it being sent so
this one is it going to be true false or
not given if there's no information on
this this one's going to be not given
number two number three some roads may
have normal traffic flow on them the
passage says although many roads are
closed to oncoming traffic this is not
always the case and you should be aware
of the possibility that there could be
vehicles coming in the opposite
direction so do these two say the same
thing
do they contradict each other or is
there no information I hope you've
written on your answer sheet true for
number three because it is true those
two statements basically say the same
thing they certainly don't contradict
each other than before all right so this
is the thing right so now we're up to
number four helmets are compulsory for
all participants now the key word of
course is helmet there's nothing here
about helmet but then we go to the next
passage chart we see the head subheading
helmets helmets are compulsory for all
participants the passage says every year
we are delighted to see more riders
wearing protective helmets but we must
see every cyclist on the ride wearing
one therefore or in other words helmets
are compulsory for all participants
let's break this down
because okay so we've got the keyword
helmets which is fine but helmets
compulsory must and we've got
participants every cyclist you can see
the way in which the IELTS use synonyms
to say the same thing okay so this one
is true number four is true number five
refreshments are free to all
participants during the ride okay let's
go back though because here we have
something interesting happening because
let's say we're doing number five and
it's about Rush fresh mints and we scan
read nothing refreshments there
attractive assistants the marshal
thumbs-down motorcycle nuff nothing
about refreshments there in case of a
breakdown okay there's the rider
identity card but it's nothing about
that
okay nothing about refreshments here so
we had to skip this half of this
paragraph skip this paragraph skip this
paragraph so now at this paragraph here
which is about refreshment stops
refreshments are free to all
participants during the ride this says
look out for these refreshments along
the route of routes most are organized
by voluntary clubs and their prices give
you real value for money their prices
give you real value for money
refreshments are free but they're
charging you money in other words these
things are contradicting each other
therefore what's the answer the answer
is going to be oops
false number six if you need a rest you
must get off the road and we scan read
these paragraphs and there's nothing
said about taking a rest therefore if
there's no information on this there's
nothing mentioned about it the answer is
going to be not given for number six
number seven first aid staff can provide
cycle capes I want you to read this and
tell me whether it's true false or not
given
well it says here first aid staff can
provide cycle caps but here it says our
first aid staff can only supply bin
liners so it is mentioned but it's not
saying the same thing
in fact it's saying something
contradictory if for this one is going
to be false Oh before we look at number
eight if you are not yet a subscriber to
the et language channel which now has a
hundred thousand subscribers do click
the subscribe button and make sure the
notifications are on so when we do to a
live stream you'll get notification on
your phone you can watch these live
classes which is cool yeah thanks for
all of you who have subscribed be sure
to share this video with your friends if
you think it's good or if you know
somebody who's taking the IELTS as well
there's a lot of junk on YouTube and
it's hard to find the good stuff and
when you do find the good stuff I think
you should share it so do feel free to
share it up with your friends if you
think it's good ok number eight bike
events will charge you for the return of
your bike please tell me if it's true
false or not given this statement
okay Mike events will charge you for the
return of your bike bike events there's
your keyword see this is again you don't
wanted to start reading here and read
all the way through it's gonna take too
much time so what you do is you find a
keyword like bike events here first-aid
stuff would be a great key word here
refreshments helmets these are all great
keywords right bike events and here it
is here bike events will hold your bike
for three months after which it may be
disposed of you will be charged for all
costs incurred in returning your cycle
bike events will charge you for the
return of your bike okay is it true
false or not given well as far as I'm
concerned these two say the same thing
in different words therefore it's going
to be true your answer sheet my friends
should look like this number one is true
- not given three true for true five
false six not given seven false and
eight true please into the comments
below put what your score is what did
you get out of eight maybe you got one
or four or eight who knows that would be
cool
and before I leave you or before I go
and answer some questions check out this
website
e to language comm if you're not a free
member sign up for free we've got heaps
and heaps of stuff that will help you to
pass your IELTS test as soon as possible
that's all check it out it's good it's
good it's good all right let's have a
look on in zoom and YouTube and see what
questions we've got question number one
was tricky says nagas I guess it is not
given well yeah crisp question number
one was the toughest I think question
one was the toughest question so if you
got that right very well done what was
your score six five eight five seven
eight six seven four seven nice work
guys that's looking pretty good
that's pretty good scores five and seven
what do we get on YouTube live I'm gonna
read out some names of people who got
eight
legendary effort met TAS Sonia got eight
neha got eight j cardia got eight added
Sharma got eight Chahal got eight nice
work everybody else good scores well
done maybe it's because there's great
teaching involved alright if you have
any questions pop them into the chat and
I will answer them J shouldn't number
seven be not given instead of being
false no because it was contradictory if
it contradicts okay so it's given but
it's saying something different then
it's false it's just not given then it's
not given okay J how many true false not
given questions are there for general
IELTS well usually you'll get about
usually you get about you'll either get
yes no not given or true false not given
will do yes no not given next week
pretty similar but you'll get a bet yeah
about eight to ten I guess J please help
in writing it is very difficult to go
from six point five to seven if you
haven't seen our YouTube videos or sign
up to the platform do that right now
because let's just say we've uncovered
the reasons why people get stuck on six
point five yes there are some good
reasons why people get stuck on six
point five J how long are the passages I
guess they're all about sort of ten
paragraphs quite long quite long I think
they're about 600 to 800 words J you're
going to do another video about reading
next week yes I will
while listening yeah okay here's an
interesting month while I was doing my
listening I suffered from what I can
imagine is a panic attack and I couldn't
complete my exam properly this is a this
is a thing that happens in these exams
because they're so high stakes and
they're so pressure filled you're going
to be really bloody nervous or if you're
not
weird of you not to be honest Christie's
yeah it's it's the way it is what can
you do about it
it's not just through that strange
sensation in your body when your hearts
beating and your stomach's churning your
hands are sweating and but you just have
to concentrate on what's in front of you
okay so if you're doing the reading I
mean the beautiful thing about that is
you don't have to be a part of these
sensations you can just
well you might still feel them but make
sure you're just concentrating on what
you're reading focusing on what you're
doing rather than what your body's doing
I think that's the only way around that
really yeah make sure you get a good
night's sleep don't drink alcohol the
night before if you're susceptible to
coffee if coffee makes you nervous don't
drink coffee
haven't been breakfast I think having a
big breakfast high-fat breakfast not
high carbohydrate high fat is good for
breakfast the energy just last longer it
has a greater density per calorie
something like that okay cool that's
fine noted nagas thank you for that okay
Jay when can we have a live session on
matching headings I've already done that
on YouTube check it out sometimes there
is some information missing in the
question should I look about the missing
info in the passage or question for not
given yeah I mean you have to so let's
say you've got let's say you've got
let's go back this is a good question I
like this question okay let's do this
question again so this is a not given
question right and it says here if you
need a rest you must get off the road
and so you start scan reading and you
start looking for words like rest
refreshment stops there's nothing in
here about taking a rest okay nothing in
here about taking a rest nothing in here
about taking a rest I think I'm gonna
mark this not given
let's go to the next one first aid staff
conducted ah well it's talking about
first aid staff here therefore I'm going
to mark this one not given now I'll
concentrate on sorry I'll mark number
six not given concentrate on seven so
yeah you have to have a look around but
if you're starting to think it's not
there it's not there it's not there and
if the next questions coming before it
then you can rest assured that you're
probably right it is not given okay
here's a good question Jay do we have to
write true false not given in capital
letters well again if the instructions
say write true false not given and the
instructions are in capital letters you
use capital letters I don't just be
careful you have to be very careful in
the IELTS because little things can cost
you so they read the instructions follow
the instructions yeah cool
okay next week I'll do yes no not given
yeah
yeah okay so Tuscans finds matching
headings very difficult I agree through
tusky and I think matching headings is
probably the most difficult of the IELTS
question tasks core guys I'm gonna leave
it there I think I've answered
everyone's questions there's some
questions popping up in YouTube life
thanks very much for coming along I hope
that was helpful it's all about practice
of course though it's one thing to know
the methods it's another thing to put
pen to paper and actually practice okay
so if you do need some good quality high
quality practice materials if you want
some feedback on your writing if you
want to take a 45 minute one-on-one
tutorial with an ex IELTS examiner who
will look at your writing or take you
through speaking then do sign up to e2
language comm it's great value for money
you don't have to travel you can do it
from home best teachers in the world
lalalalala cool I'll see you guys soon
you